Hi, welcome to our cognitive accessibility
and machine learning presentation
for the W3C machine-learning workshop.
I'm very, very happy to be here.
My name's is Josh O'Connor.
I'm emerging technology specialist
with W3C Web Accessibility Initiative.
I'm here with my colleague, Lisa Seeman also,
who is the task force facilitator from the COGA,
the Cognitive Accessibility Task Force.
And we are going to be talking about
cognitive accessibility and machine learning -
beyond rule-based testing environments.
So great, Lisa, over to you.
Let's hear a little bit
about what we're gonna be discussing.
slide-2
And these are really research topics
or early prototype stages for these kinds of things.
The first is that machine learning can offer
potential solutions for people with cognitive disability,
to bridge the gap in understanding
on what people can can comprehend
and putting things in a format
that they can understand better,
like simplified languages, as one example,
usability testing for people with cognitive disabilities
to be as software as a service
or some other compatible mechanism
that would enable automatic testing.
And also, there's some movement
in the other direction.
Because I think there's the potential
for what we're doing
for support for cognitive disabilities,
to actually help machine learning type algorithms
perform better, and have maybe an anchor or more information
on what's going on in the page
so that if it's adapting it for other applications,
it will perform a bit better.
So we're going to be talking about
how machine learning can support people
with cognitive disabilities,
how this could potentially enable
the better testing of that support.
Just generally understand
how inclusive design can support even machine learning
by developing data sets,
which understand what works or what does not work
for particular diverse user groups. Is that right?
Yeah. Some kind of going in the other direction.
There's tons of things where machine learning can help us
as people trying to provide support
for people with Cognitive and Learning Disabilities,
and create new tools.
But actually, we could be helping other examples
of machine learning application by what we're doing.
Absolutely.
slide-3
So going on to the next sections on slide two
user testing and cognitive and machine learning.
Yeah, so right now,
a lot of the conformance
for accessibility regulations and guidelines
are kind of pattern matching rules.
So does this image have an alt tag?
If not, it might not conform to something.
You know part level of pattern match.
And that really didn't work well for us,
trying to incorporate the user needs
for people with Cognitive and Learning Disabilities .
slide-4
For instance, move to slide two,
an example of a user need or pattern
that we would be introducing
Cognitive and Learning Disabilities is:
can we identify the controls on the page?
Does a button look like a button?
Or do they think it's a heading?
Or just text? Is it recognizable?
Well, this is something that's very hard to do
with straightforward rules.
You know, if this is missing,
if there's a button that doesn't have this,
then it's a fail. Those kind of unit test rules.
It's very hard.
It's a bit...
it's subjective, and it moves.
What's familiar depends on which group.
So we would recommend user testing
with a bunch of different groups,
and recording what people find usable.
slide-5
So if you're using a link, and it's blue and underlined,
let's assume that it's recognizable.
But if you've got other ways of doing a link,
well, it might be very different for an 18-year-old
with down syndrome to a 70-year-old
with age appropriate forgetfulness,
who's having trouble learning new design patterns.
slide-6
Putting that into a standard
has been really, really challenging.
People will often know if it's recognizable or not,
but how do you make that something that you could test?
So there are issues, Lisa, with mapping affordances
in a way that's consistent,
depending on a user's preference,
or the user's requirements,
particularly if they've got diverse ability.
Yes, that's one thing...
that's one way we're trying to look at it.
So the advantages of machine learning here
is that the algorithm could be trained
on what people have found usable
and recognize straight away,
and learn what for this user base
is considered recognizable
and what's not recognizable.
And we could introduce a certainty components
such as if we say something should be likely
it's over 90% certainties, assume that it's accessible.
slide-7
And that could kind of bridge the gap.
As we've got on slide five,
between the need of saying,
perform user testing,
that's how you're gonna know
and having some kind of automated solution
that's less scary and  easier.
So, the machine learning patterns will have a way
of giving us a certain statistical confidence
that something is likely to work or not
based on large pattern matching
of various different kinds of interactions.
slide-8
So how can inclusive design support machine learning?
slide-9
If we move on then to slide six?
Well, we have some new technologies that we've made.
We've got at wide review
going to CR of Personalization Semantics,
where we will put on a mapping to a concept notes
so that symbols can be added for different use cases
or symbols can be adapted
if people have learned a specific symbol set,
and that's what is familiar to them,
as well as other support can be integrated
into the page such as instructions or help scaffolding.
So this kind of information actually tells machine learning,
the right answer of what this button is, what does this do?
What concept did I mean when I said this?
So that would then have almost a 100% certainty
or close to it.
You can then use that for giving context,
and that could upgrade the performance
of things like automatic translation,
and other transformations or analysis of web content.
Great. That sounds great.
slide-10
So we're talking about,
on slide seven semantic tokens,
allowing the association of these
various different preferred symbols with current elements.
How do you see machine learning even supporting
the creation of these symbols?
Do you think it's because if you have things described
in a way that's semantically accurate,
that allows levels of abstraction
that machine learning could support
in a large kind of aggregated manner?
Is that something that you think…?
Yeah, it can go back and forth Josh.
Because if you've got, say, an authoring tool
that adds the concept notes, if you like, into the code.
And if it does it 80% accurate,
which currently is about the rate.
It makes mistakes, but the author will understand the symbol
and will understand what they intended.
So if you said bank and you meant the financial institution,
it puts a bank of river, you'll know this is wrong
and you can switch it,
if you're using that as an anchor for machine translation
to other languages maybe,
and I leave this to the audience who knows more,
but maybe that could provide the context
to provide better machine translation,
you know, a bit of context can trigger more certainty
down the line, and we're all fighting the same ambiguities
when we make mistakes.
So if we're solving it to be able to translate
across different symbol languages, in one language,
then it could also potentially help
to map across different languages.
slide-11
Great stuff. So in terms of new solutions for inclusion
why do you feel that machine learning can be more similar
to how humans actually think
that's a very interesting insight?
slide-12
Yeah, well, machine learning
and new on that, for instance,
is more similar to how most people think,
most of us don't think like,
not often so much in a sequential way
of these rule-based algorithms.
So in a way machine learning is based on how people think.
And so therefore, it could fill the gaps
on where there's some kind of problem.
So, for instance, people with dyscalculia,
the area of the brain,
which processes numerical concepts, is impaired.
So they struggle very much with money
and trying to figure out what's more, what's less,
let alone what's expensive.
So being able to make a judgment call
on whether this item is expensive or not,
that would be quite a long sequential algorithm
with traditional computing.
Something like machine learning might be...
I mean, I know some bots that are working on that,
so that kind of decision making, it could be supportive.
Another example is vision loss.
You have an image,
they haven't all had got alternative text.
What would be a good description of the image?
And what's the image trying to convey
with its red and yellow signage?
That might be a warning, which is more than OCR could do.
So that's more like that the instant recognition
of the mood of this image that's portraying something.
Right. So that's sophisticated image recognition,
which can support different disability types.
slide-13
I know one of the things that you are quite concerned about
is the inclusion of people with cognitive disabilities
and their related data within the data sets,
they're used to power machine learning
or any kind of algorithmic based application,
such as smart cities or whatnot.
So could you speak a little bit
about just the importance of having diverse data sets?
slide-14
Yeah. And this is one of the big fears, I think.
And it happens already that people with disabilities,
or other groups, it might be people
who can't afford a smartphone. They're not using the apps
and they're not using the websites
and some of the tools that the phone calls
that you can't manage because of the phone menu systems
can be very difficult for people to manage.
And so then they don't call
because they know they can't reach a human
and then missed out of the data gathering process
and not in those data sets.
And therefore they're kind of invisible
in the whole decision making process
that's based on these data sets,
whether it's machine learning,
or other algorithms.
And that then will result in solutions
that don't consider them.
But as this becomes more pervasive with smart cities,
with managing all these critical services,
and people again think, “Oh yes, our services are good.”
Et cetera.
And it's just because the people who can't manage
this service, who aren't getting the critical help they need
are missing from the data sets.
And that's going to be a very big fear.
Well, I think that's a very prescient and a sobering
kind of assessment
and shows that when we have generic data sets
that are being used to drive algorithmic type decisions,
it can have a very negative impact on people
in ways that we can't initially perceive.
So Lisa, just finally, thanks very much.
This is really, really great.
slide-15
We do focus in APA,
the Accessible Platforms Architecture group,
and the Research Questions Task Force
on where there are various nexuses
between different technologies,
different platforms and accessibility.
You know, we do invite everyone
who's at this workshop to contribute to this work
and we welcome feedback on the presentation
that we've given and the research that Lisa's is doing
in the Cognitive Accessibility Task Force.
And we hope that this discussion is useful and beneficial,
and everyone has enjoyed it, and found it useful.
slide-16
Lisa, thank you very much.
Thank you, Josh.